Our Smallest, Ultra-Efficient Low-Power Controller

Features

    Tensilica's smallest, lowest power 32-bit RISC controller core
    Cache-less processor with memory protection unit
    5-stage pipeline
    Dhrystone 2.1: 1.22 DMIPS/MHz
    24-/16-bit ISA with modeless switching
    Iterative 32x32 multiplier
    Separate instruction and data memory interfaces
    Integrated interrupt controller with 15 interrupts at 2 priority levels
    Integrated timer
    On-chip debugging hardware
    Embedded trace support
    Comprehensive software design environment
    AHB-lite and AXI bridges

Benefits

    Easy migration from 8- and 16-bit microcontrollers
    Lower total system costs due to smaller size, higher performance, and better code density
    Deterministic real-time operation through optional single-cycle local instruction and data SRAMs
    Achieve high frequency: 900 MHz in 45nm GS
    Multiplier provides high arithmetic and DSP performance
    No memory contention between instructions and data
    Fast and flexible interrupt handling
    Drop into existing AMBA™-based SOCs

Tensilica's Smallest 32-bit RISC Controller Core

The Diamond Standard 106Micro CPU is a cache-less 32-bit controller ideal for designers looking for a basic 32-bit controller, particularly for those migrating up from an 8- or 16-bit controller.  Designed for applications with requirements for minimal size and low power, the Diamond Standard 106Micro controller enables SOC architects to quickly integrate this efficient CPU in their designs.

Although the Diamond 106Micro is extremely small, it employs a 5-stage pipeline so it can achieve 650 MHz in 65gp process and up to 900 MHz in 45gs process technology. By modelessly switching between 24- and 16-bit narrow instructions, it achieves much higher code density than other 32/16-bit architectures.

The local, tightly-coupled instruction and data memory on the Diamond Standard 106Micro can be used to store performance-sensitive code and data, for example, to achieve high performance on interrupt handlers. The Diamond 106Micro has an iterative, multi-cycle (non-pipelined) 32x32 multiplier that enhances performance on arithmetic and DSP code. The processor uses a non-windowed 16-entry register file to keep area low.

The Diamond Standard 106Micro has a rich interrupt architecture with the integrated interrupt controller providing 15 interrupts, and an integrated timer. This simplifies system design since no external hardware needs to be added for these functions.

Get the 2-page Diamond Standard 106Micro product brief.
